---
date: 2024-09-14T20:01:50
title: We are ...
categories:  
tags: Kodus
author: tamarue
---

~~the World~~ Estonia.

Estlands [*Singende Revolution*](https://www.bpb.de/kurz-knapp/hintergrund-aktuell/295351/vor-30-jahren-menschenkette-baltischer-weg/) hatte diesen popmusikalischen Nachfolger, der dann doch arg an amerikanische Vorbilder erinnert:

{{< youtube r75WMX1WFgk >}}


Das Lied zelebriert den nationalen Unabhängigkeitswunsch und beschwört Solidarität und gegenseitige Unterstützung der baltischen Staaten.

In annähernde Übersetzung des Textes: → <!--more-->

It remains the case that Saaremaa  
sees the evening sun blossom.  
Next to him, Hiiumaa  
knows a truly flourishing nation.  
More bird nests in Läänemaa  
can be found in beach reeds,  
Still report on, will Harjumaa  
the story of the birth of our nation.  

Don't want, can't, can't leave you, Virumaa!  

Only nature knows, the fatherland knows -  
we have to help each other  
No land is alone,  
Don't want, can't leave you, Virumaa!  

Not stuck at all is Järvamaa  
if the field is black waiting for the seed.  
Won't scare us Pärnumaa's  
story of getting lost in the native forest.  
Maybe wisdom-nourishing Tartumaa  
knows what a man's mind is?  
How long can Võrumaa  
stay on the right track?  

Don't want, can't, can't leave you, Virumaa!  

Only nature knows, the fatherland knows -  
we have to help each other  
No land is alone,  
Don't want, can't leave you, Virumaa!  

Will it still be the case that Mulgimaa  
does not allow itself to be pruned?  
Is silence-guarding Valgamaa  
in union with the shouters?  
If all springs in Virumaa  
with clear water remain clean   
then I dare say  
that I live in my own country.  

Only nature knows, the motherland knows -  
we have to help each other  
No land is alone,  
I don't want to, I can't leave you, Virumaa!  

No land is alone!  

Only nature knows, the motherland knows -  
we have to help each other  
No land is alone,  
I don't want to, I can't leave you, Virumaa!  

No land is alone...  
No land is alone...  
No land is alone...   

2015 griff eine Gruppe von jungen Satirikerinnen und Satiriker den Song auf und veröffentlichte eine Version, in der die auch in Estland anzutreffende Intoleranz gegenüber Nicht-Esten aufgegriffen wird:  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NvWVoMv5CIk?si=Uu_U4t3Z6G2c8Sjb" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

So be it that in Saaremaa  
no integration is to ever happen.  
Next to it, Hiiumaa feels  
that it might not hate enough.  
A few negroes in Läänemaa.  
can be found in beach reeds,  
They were beaten there by Harjumaa  
as zero's our quota!  

Don't want, won't and can't - close the borders at Virumaa!  

Only nature knows, the fatherland knows -  
a nigger's place is in Africa!  
Far away there, we can tolerate them  
and every other animal species too!  

No issues in Järvamaa,  
even the dirt there isn't very black.  
Even more active is Pärnumaa  
even black bread is shown the door.  
Knows wisdom-nourishing Tartumaa  
that Islam is a... mushroom?  
What to do, wonders Võrumaa  
if the black is a Chechen?  

Don't even know or care - ah, all the same Negro land!  

Only nature knows, the fatherland knows -  
they like to blow themselves up!  
Our race is endangered, Kristiina too  
It's not racism, just pure logic!  

It won't remain that Mulgimaa  
merely despises the foreign language!  
So too, proudly announces Valgamaa  
that it can rage diversely.  
If Russophobia in Virumaa  
goes hand-in-hand with homophobia  
only then dare I say  
that I live in my own country.  

Only nature knows, the motherland knows -  
we like to hate everything!  
When someone laughs, when water boils  
or when anyone does anything at all!  

There's only one creature even worse...  

|AUTHOR|tamarue|DATE|1726322540|CATEGORIES|3,7,9|